RAW HONEY SHOP NEWS ..... :- 20

Dear <salutation>

This has been a terrible winter for sore
throats, coughs, covid and flu. Maybe
its because of lockdown and spending
time isolated from each other - and from
nasty bugs.

Now the bugs are back with a vengeance.
In this situation, as the chill of
winter lingers, many of us find solace
in the natural remedies in our own
medicine chests, honey being one of the
main go to remedies.

Right now, I have a key recommendation
for your medicine chest - for easing the
symptoms of those agonising sore throats
and tickling coughs that won’t let up.

Thomas’ Red Fir honey! This is one of
the best honeys we’ve had in years. Thomas with his Red Fir Honey on Mount Kaliakouda

It has proved to be incredibly potent. I was astounded when I got it lab tested
and it came back with a 23 Activity Level. More than Manuka.

Back in June last year, when Thomas first took me way up to his hives, high on
Mount Kaliakouda in central Greece, I was totally smitten with the place where
this honey originates.

The natural beauty is almost too much. Overwhelming.

There was a kind of purity to the clearing where Thomas has his hives on the

mountain that you only find in very, very isolated places. The fresh air clears
your head. The sounds around relax you - you hear not just the hum of the bees
but many insects. (There are also bears and other wild animals on the mountain).

You feel the pulse of life very strongly.

Maybe that’s why it’s one of the best honeys I’ve ever tasted and...

Here’s how to get maximum benefit from the Red Fir (or other honey) for your

sore throat/cough.

The Red Fir is thick, it’s delicious and it is great for coating your throat. Just take a spoonful, tilt your head back and rotate
your head so it is spread right around your throat. Then let it sit there, slowly sliding down for 10 minutes or so.

Repeat later in the day.

Recent studies have shown that honey has anti-inflammatory qualities — well we all knew that didn’t we? And the antimi-
crobial properties can kill any bugs that take advantage of your weakened state when you have a cold virus.

the ideal honey for soothing those awful symptoms that can drag on and on.

In the same vein, the Oak Honey from Giorgios. It is also from a magical mountain,
a different kind of place, a mountain covered in giant ancient oaks. The oak trees
on Mount Othrys, which I visited back last June have produced this dark, rich
texture and low moisture content honey - making it ideal for easing sore throats
and coughs.

I got it lab tested it and it came out at 19.5, still pretty high and great for
killing any bugs that may be lurking in your throat when you are weakened by a cold
or flu virus.

We’ve all seen the stuff about Manuka honey and UMF grades.

So, what’s the gen about Active honey, like the
Red Fir and Giorgios’ Oak?

e In the last couple of years, I’ve made a point
of getting some of our dark honeys tested for
antibacterial levels. For a long time, the
view was that Manuka was the only honey that
had high antibacterial levels. But our testing
has shown that other honeys are just as active
- or in quite a few cases more active. This is
how it works.

Right now Antal is preparing his Acacia to send to us.

e The test at the lab measures the total antimi-
crobial activity of a honey by testing a solution on a lab plate against the
Staph Aureus bacteria.

e The honey is then graded according to the amount of bacteria that the honey
solution kills. Generally, the range that we see will be between 10 and 25 plus.
This type of test is similar to the test used to grade Manuka Honey.

e The main antibacterial activity is caused by a bee enzyme that creates hydrogen
peroxide in the honey.

Please bear in mind that the Activity Level is at its highest when we test it and
will decrease over time. This will happen faster if the honey is exposed to light
and heat. It is important that you store your honey in a dark cool place, as that
will help to slow down the rate at which the Activity Level decreases.

Finally, there’s one more honey with a different kind of healing property.

Luisa's Calluna honey stands out for wound healing.
I'd like to highlight Luisa’s Calluna, for a different reason — for its wound healing qualities. Last August Luisa’s daughter
Olaya visited us with her family.

She told us how their Calluna honey is being used in a French hospital for wound healing. It seems to be working pretty
well as you can see in a video of Olaya explaining the story behind this ‘hospital honey’. Just scan the QR code with your
phone. Or go to this link: www.therawhoneyshop.com/healing

What's Coming — let me know if you are interested in any of these honeys.
e Soon to arrive is a delicate organic Acacia honey from beekeeper Antal in Hungary.

e There was no Mount Olympus Forest this year because the weather affected the Oak trees, Oak is a key element of
his forest honey. But he does have a Mount Olympus Mountain, a lighter honey from high on Mount Olympus.

Continued over the page...

www .therawhoneyshop.com/cat 01273 682109
e Also, I am looking to explore some new
honeys this year including an Alphine Fir
honey from Austria and an earthy Chestnut
honey from Italy. Scan this QR code or go
#to 2??? to register your interest via a
jshort survey in these honeys, so I can
plan ahead.

Warm regards, stay safe and well,
rar
{um Owner, the Raw Honey Shop.

PS: Laimonas, our Lithuanian beekeeper,
has sent us 77 1kg jars of Dandelion
honey. It’s not one we have had before but
I know it is extremely popular in northern
Meet the team! Yes, this is us when we had a weekend away to Europe. Dandelion honey's flavour varies
work on our raw honey plans for 2024. from bitter and astringent to herbal and
From left to right: Tim, Claire, Kish and Prue. mildly sweet, depending on the source mix.
Its aroma can range from woody or herbal
to pungent and slightly vinegary. If you want to be updated when it goes on sale
scan this QR code or go to: www. therawhoneyshop.com/dandelion

Interested in doing a beekeeping taster course
in the beautiful parkland gardens of a
riverside art deco villa in rural France?

5 reasons why you should consider
downloading our new App
1. Immediate Savings: First things first, download the app and you'll
get a 5% discount on your next purchase. This is on top of all other
discounts, giving you potentially up to 25% off. It's my way of saying
thank you for joining us on this new journey.
2. Offline Access: No more being at the mercy of a shaky internet con-
nection and slow loading speeds. With our app, you can browse our
curated range of honeys and their unique stories anytime, anywhere.
No need to go online to see the products.
3. Early Access: This is where the app really shines. You'll be the first
to know about our newest, rarest honeys. These will be promoted first
through the app - | will make sure you're notified before anyone else.
4. Exclusive Promotions: I've set up special offers that you'll only find
on the app. These aren't your everyday promotions; they're my way of
giving back to you, our most loyal customers, so you have first choice
on these promotions — like our main annual end of year sale. (The best
honeys in the sale usually sell out within hours, when | open them up
to all customers.)
5. Seamless Experience: The app is designed for speed and efficiency.
From browsing to checkout, you'll notice the difference immediately.
GO TO https://l.ead.me/bdhTQh or scan QR code.

We have a deal for you. Our friends at 13bees have
a fabulous parkland garden alongside their art deco
villa in rural France on the banks of the river
Vienne, surrounded by verdant Charentaise
countryside and typically French, medieval towns
and villages.

They run beekeeping courses and are offering Raw
Honey Shop customers a 10% discount on any of
their courses. You will have a fabulous time, | know,
| did one of their courses a few years back.

Go to www.13bees.co.uk to see the courses. If you
want to sign up or learn more give them a call say-
ing The Raw Honey Shop sent you. +33 783 10 73

68 or +33 783 46 88 81 and give them this discount
code: 13RAWBEES2024. You can also email them:
kevin@13bees.co.uk

How to Order

1. Download and order via our Raw Honey App and you can get an additional 5% off for signing
up (just use code APP5% at the checkout page). Go to: www.therawhoneyshop.com/app or just scan the
QR code to the left.

SCON ME!

3. Or call us on +44 (0)1273 682109. Prue, Kish, Claire or myself (Tim) will do our best to help you. And you can always
email us at info@therawhoneyshop,com

2. Or go to www.therawhoneyshop.com/cat and you will see our main honeys

QR Codes—you'll notice that we have added a QR code next to every honey. You can scan this code with your phone
camera and it will take you directly to the item online for easy ordering .
Thomas’ Organic Red Fir — Active 23 — comes
from a high mountain paradise. This is a beautiful red
coloured honey, that has a surprisingly fruity flavour

centiTtE: Roane, 4

for a honeydew honey, whilst retaining earthy and © Raw Hem }
< Red Fir «\
Thomas Y

woody elements. The bees collected the honeydew
from Fir trees growing high on Mount Kaliakouda, an
exceptionally remote and wild place, frequented by
bears. It is a place where nature still rules.

Luisa's Raw Calluna Honey
(the one that is used in a French hospital for treating skin abrasions)
This honey has a strong aroma of flowers
(honeysuckle and lilac come to mind), beeswax, | ha
and dry woodiness from the moment the jar is
opened.
This is an amazing tasting shrub honey, with a
very potent flavour. In the aftertaste, there are
elements of bitter and sour, though neither
lingers overly long. It also has a strong anti-

bacterial property and is used in French hospitals
for its properties in healing skin abrasions.

There’s a story behind this powerful medicinal
honey, one that the Greeks have known about
since ancient times.

It is a honey that will help ease winter ailments
misery and even treat external burns and sores. 9. aoe,
| discovered it after climbing Mount Othyrs, iy

to an ancient Oak Forest where artisan bee
keeper Giorgio's, showed me his hives amidst
the trees.

Dimitris’ Organic Mt Olympus Mountain

This Greek Artisan Honey is an outstanding organic mountain honey
from the slopes of the seat of the Gods, Mount Olympus.

This is a very special honey with a complex
flavour made possible from the herbs that
grow on Mount Olympus, as well as the Oak
and Fir forests plus Heather that carpet the
mountain. You will find earthy notes initially Mt Olynpus Mousrtain
that give way to a spicy hit on the long tail.

www .therawhoneyshop.com 01273 682109
